# LinkedIn Post: AI SEO Part 3: Automated Citation Mining
- **Author:** Dan Petrovic
- **Target Link:** https://www.linkedin.com/posts/seoguy_ai-seo-part-3-1-automated-citation-mining-activity-7407969688003104769-GvI2/

## Text Content

AI SEO - PART 3:
1. Automated Citation Mining Pipeline
2. Entities > (fanouts) > Prompts > (API) > Response Analysis
3. Visibility Optimisation Cycle and Workflow
4. Selection Rate Optimization: On-Page & Off-Page
5. Tools

PART 1: https://lnkd.in/gSERv2Ap
PART 2: https://lnkd.in/gQXuNc-g

### Transcript

This this is a free citation mining tool that will give you just a one off example. What we do you type in a prompt that's the analysis gives you the citations and the confidence score how likely that citation was going to be relevant to that grounding chunk. In an automated pipeline, internally what we do is we start with entities with defined the entities for that brand in a similar way that you did. We did before. We define the prompts. Prompts are auto generated by the model. So you can generate hundreds of prompts if you like. Then we do the actual prompting and then we do the parsing of the output and this is what it looks like. So we start with the entity generations. We can put this in manually as humans what matters to us. So we can ask the model to define the entities. Then we generate the prompts for each entity, generate 10 prompts, 90 prompts. So we use those. Prompts to mine and probe open AI, Google and we come up with a 432 citation mining instances out of that we already have the top domains where the citations are coming from and the top URLs are the citations are coming from exact count. And not only that, we get the confidence scores, we get the exact position of the sentence in the grounding source and we can attribute each grounding chunk to the sentence that was generated. Why is this important? Well, we can also with open. Yeah, we can also see what model saw, but it didn't choose to include it as a citation. And that leads directly to selection rate optimization. This is part of the Models API. So if you remember this slide, this is exactly what we were talking about. So we have the mapping, but now we have the full picture. We've got the text input, we've got the text output, we've got the source URL. And now that picture is completed, we've just closed the loop through citation mining and we are ready for the cycle of AI optimization now. The visibility optimization is data collection. Analysis, prioritization. So this part that you see prioritization, that's that little token analysis and probabilities and strengths to understand where are the weak points. You can't do everything with citation mining. You want to focus your efforts, concentrating efforts on the things that will matter the most to improve and bolster the moments where the models are weak about your brand perception, where you'd like to be perceived. So that forms a campaign and the campaign goes into the the loop of visibility tracking on a more granular level what we have. Is we've got the organic queries and out of them we generate fan outs. We've developed our own query fan out model that we use. We can generate query fanouts at scale. And they give us an enormous scope of queries that we can do, uh, query mining for. So that gives us two things, gives us the synthetic queries with the query gap that we're not ranking for and gives us the query fan out. So we can test and probe the negative biases and positive biases that leads directly to on page optimization and off page optimization because it's not always about getting citations. It's sometimes fixing your own content. But what do you optimize it for? You need to 1st understand whether weak spots. In the models head for your brand and your products and services. So that leads to things like selection, rate optimization, outreach, entity association and so on. So I have built a phenomenal amount of tools that you guys can just jump on and use. So the list is quite exhausted. I could talk 30 minutes for each one. And in fact, I lost track of how many tools I have, so I built a list just for myself. So I'm sharing it here, here with you. And they're all available for use. And there are sort of demonstration and inspiration for you. So you can think about what, what does the new SEO do in this, in this whole confusing space of models, LM's, This is now part of SEO. So I don't use any new NEO acronyms, I just call it SEO and I probably didn't say one word much. And, and I don't know if you noticed that I like a lot of, a lot of speakers will say this word a lot, but I, I mentioned it maybe a few times only. This whole presentation was was about AI, but AI. Is, is now what we it's like an assumed part of what we do and it's part of my brain. I built it in my brand is in a very subtle gradient way. So all the things and tools and things and processes is what is Dan talking about? Who's talking like this crazy lunatic 200 kilometres an hour? The reason I'm talking high pace is because that's what's happening in the machine learning industry. New models every day, new methods being discovered every day. And, and we have to learn very quickly and we have to adapt very quickly. So if you guys are confused, lost, wondering how something works, how the tool works, you want to get down to the granular level of it, get to that URL, submit a form and just ask me. I'll get your, I'll get your details and I'll just respond to you. This is not a sales thing. This is just for you guys to be able to reach out to me, exchange ideas, ask for clarifications, and collaborate. So I have about 5 minutes to wrap up, so I'll try to be really, really quick. So this is the next stage is to present my models and tools that are built for the community. So these are our machine learning systems and models that are available for marketing teams, for tech geeks and so on. So in my machine learning workflow, I use Facebook for profit. Or the good old logistic regression. I use mixed bread and bedding model. I use thighs, which is Facebook AI similarity search. I use the query fan out model that we uploaded on Hugging face. You guys can use it. We use link bird, the link prediction model. We use universal query classification model, AI detection AI content detection model and the content substance classification model. So. The sentiment tool will be able to tell you where the sentiment is positive, negative, or neutral. We've got the link bird which predicts natural linking within the plain text to help you with optimization of these entities that were not seen as strong as as they should be. Query intent classification which is now happening in Search Console as I as I believe just a couple of days ago. So we have universal search classifier, query fanout generation, link spam algorithms, AI content detection model and our old school algorithm for volatility and it's cousin. Flux, which measures the volatility in AI search as well. Tree Walker is the algorithm that I've developed to find the high and low entropy completions in the model output. What I've been showing before is available to you guys. You can jump on Tree Walker, which will be at the end of my slides, the link, and you can probe your own sentences, your own models, what the models think about your brand. There's a brand relevance tool which does the probability for your brand. Is my brand relevant for this? Entity Yes, no and it will give you the exact score what the model thinks about your brand. AI Rank is a tool for AI visibility tracking. We've also got the link bird oxy for query gap, synthetic query generation and gap from your search console. Citation mining. You can harvest citations go through the query deserves grounding. This model determines whether the query user entered will trigger the search grounding in the model or not. So you know, wasting your time on the queries that will not be grounded. Research. So we've got one for Google, one for open AI. We've got content AI detection model. We've got another query fair generator that's based out of directly out of Google content substance classifier, AI flux, Google brand and intent detection, Penguin link optimization tool to avoid penalties. Chunk Norris a tool for chunking your content. Google entity search tool, brand AI sentiment, text sentiment, Gemini token probabilities. And that is all. Thank you very.
