# LinkedIn Post: Past, Present, and Future of AI SEO (Part 1)
- **Author:** Dan Petrovic
- **Target Link:** https://www.linkedin.com/posts/seoguy_1-past-present-and-future-of-ai-seo-2-activity-7407253126552092672-6CFY/

## Text Content

1. Past, present and future of AI SEO.
2. Honesty and hard work.
3. Knowing where to poke the stick.

PART 2: https://lnkd.in/g97DnhKJ

### Transcript

So I wrote this article called Conversations with Google, and it's about Amy. She wakes up, has a little chat with Google, sends it on task. Google does stuff, comes back to her, they go back and forth, chat about things, and she's getting into some of the medication questions. She's having Google doing research, coming back with findings and so on and so on. So I propose what type of data Google has about her, Explicit, implicit, hidden, and so on. And as you can see, we've got understanding of the user. Fearing multimodal search, personal assistant element, human facets, data retrieval and so on. And these the article details about all the things that go into the personalization. This is a very short talks. I can't detail on each one, but I'll leave this list with you because you'll get the slides. You can peruse this. So I also propose an index of one that will come in in addition to the knowledge graph, the line graph, the social graph and everything else that we have. So me graph, the graph of one person. And so she's using Google as the organizer. The conversation model to interact between the machine and her to to rid herself of all the gadgets that she has. You might say, well, what? So what? That's just Gemini, right? But I wrote this in 2013. And some of my readers said, what do you mean? Do you think in 10 years Google's gonna be like a chat bot? And I said that's exactly what Google is gonna be like. And here we are. So. The evolutionary timeline of Google that I predicted 10 years ago is still on track, and if you read through that you will you will find exactly what happened and what will happen still. So. This stuff has been coming for a long time. We've had people dreaming up to talk to machines for a very, very long time. And as work of fiction progresses, we've had the actual science keep up. We've got Asimov, we've got Clark, we've got pretty much at every step of the way. And weird thing is like it's all in the sevens. So this is the 2001, this is the Star Wars, and we've got already got TF, IDF and Computer do this, do that. BM25 was already there. We were starting to play with the back. Propagation and convolutional neural networks. Yan Liqun, Jodie Foster talking to computer and Hans increased this and that reduce noise. So as you can see page rank was already invented by then. So 2007 voice search and then we had Transformers Google from Google brain. And 27, it'll be the agentic web basically. And in 37, AGI coming out of China, probably. So 50 years of the evolutionary timeline leading up to Transformers had a little late in history that I wanted to talk to you about before I get into the meat of it. So when Google invented the Transformers open, I paid attention and they were like, ooh, nice. Now we made GPT based on the architecture the Google invented. And so this guy. Called Alec Redford in 2018 decided he's gonna have 12 layers and 768 dimensions in his model. Why? Because that's what would fit on his computer at the time, and it will train for a month. And that was at the edge of his patients. No other reason. So Google went, ooh, OK, GPT that he must know what he's doing. So we gonna make Bert and we're gonna use 768 dimensions. And while they were doing that. Something interesting was happening in the background. So mind you, these were tiny little language models. They fit on your laptop now and you can run them. At the time, everyone knew that tiny little models can learn a little bit. Small models can learn learn really well if you have a large model. They learn everything and that's a bad thing because they overfit. They learn for the exam and they can't generalize on on very tasks. So the number of errors that the model makes grows bigger. The model is until this lunatic came along and he was like, I don't care, let's make models bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and see what happens. And what happened is was double descent. So he scaled models to crazy levels and he noticed that the number number of errors was reducing. Guess who was paying attention? Google and open I will like. Wow. So we can increase the number of parameters and get more intelligent models. What happened next is they said, OK, from 100 million parameters, 1.5 billion parameters, we're gonna have a gigantic model and then 175, God knows how many parameters they have now, trillion. So we have these huge humongous models. And this is where we are now. We have this ginormous things that we have no idea what they do and why they do it. And if somebody tells you that they know how MLM's work, they're lying. So there's you, there's me. I'm going to be like poking my stick at it and trying to figure it all out and tell you what I've found so far. And this is basically the state of the state of marketing industry right now. But the good news is we're not alone. The creators of these models don't know. What the models do and why they do it and for what reasons? It's completely unknown. These models have something that's called emerging capabilities. Researchers don't know why their models work. They know that they work, but they don't know why. And so we have to accept this truth as marketers that we don't understand the models. Something that you need to be aware of in machine learning industry, there's something called mechanistic interpretability. This is a a new discipline of machine learning that that is in charge of understanding what models do and why they do it on a very, very advanced level. One of the leaders in this, in this space is Mira Murata. She left open, I started thinking machines keep an eye on her and her work. And of course, this guy, this is the world's number one SEO. He doesn't even know. He is literally like a genius that works an anthropic at the moment, but he's worked at both Google and Open AI and he's literally in charge of reverse engineering artificial neural networks to understand. Basically translator model whisperer. He talks to the models and translates to human human terms. So. What did I do when I started with this whole thing? Well, I thought, well, if I'm if I'm gonna have a claim that I understand AI. Um, and I use that as a loose term, right? I decided to to train my own language model. From scratch. And I don't mean like took birth or took some llama or mystery or something open source or Gemma. No, I started from nothing but plain noise. So no fine tuning, no print training model. I trained my own tokenizer and trained the model on mass language modelling where model has to predict where the bits of hidden parts of the sentences. So I had many training rounds and I managed to get the models lost all the way down to acceptable levels. So why am I saying this? Trust me, I know what I'm doing when it comes to poking a stick at the model at least.
