# Transcript: What Marketers Get Wrong About ChatGPT
- **Source URL:** https://www.youtube.com/live/eznSG4kXt0E?si=LlPax1_7822hyNMO
- **Video Identifier ID:** eznSG4kXt0E

## Text Stream Logs

[Music] [Music] Hi everyone, welcome to the Analytics Playbook webinar. I'm Dana Davaso, founder of Analytics Playbook. And today I am joined by truly one of the smartest people I know. And I'm not just saying that like it's incredible talking to her about literally everything. Britney Mueller. So Britney calls herself an AI educator and she definitely does that.
but she's also one of the few people who is truly an expert at a at AI and someone I trust in terms of her takes on AI. She does such an amazing job of breaking it down for those of us who don't know what's going on behind the scenes when you ask Chad GPT a question and frankly don't have time to learn. So Britney and I are going to be having a conversation today around the idea of what marketers could be doing better when it comes to AI. Please ask questions in the chat. I will get to them during our conversation. And if you have to drop out early, we'll be emailing everyone who registered on LinkedIn a recording of today's session.
So if you're over on YouTube watching this, please make sure to hop over to the Analytics Playbook LinkedIn page and register there or of course just message me on LinkedIn, email, etc. and I can send it over to you and help you out. So now let's get this rolling. Hey Britney, thanks for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me Dana. It's good to be here.
>> Of course. Of course. Thank you so much for agreeing to do this. So, we had to finagle some time because you've got your live uh cohort going on right now.
So, let me before we get too far into this, I just want to mention as well that if you are looking for a little bit of guidance, let's say about uh learning AI, Britney runs a fantastic course called Actionable AI for Marketers. It's on Maven and Liz on our team is taking it right now and the stuff that she's learning is amazing. So firsthand testimonial like we are paying for Britney to teach her team about this stuff and Liz is learning so much. So thank you for being such an accessible resource for this.
>> Oh my gosh, it's so fun. And Liz has been so fun to have in class and yeah, I just feel like I have the luckiest job in the world. Like the students are so quick to teach me things and learn about, you know, this and that or apply it in ways I would never think of. And it's just been so fun to create that. So Josh who's uh on YouTube, he says he took it too. It's great. So yeah, >> it's awesome.
>> Yeah, I keep hearing from people who have taken the course and they're like, "Oh, this is so good." And the live cohort, I think, experience, you know, I only do Oh, here's another person. It's amazing. I took it, too. Look at all these fans.
>> Um yeah, and I think the live cohort experience too, like I haven't done that uh yet for my courses. It's something I've thought about, but I think people that really appeals to people, too, to have this like regular, you know, cadence that you're going through the work on.
>> It's so fun. It makes it come alive, I think. And every cohort is like so different. It's got its own personality, its own group of people, and >> yeah, it's just it's such a blast.
>> Yeah, I teach university courses and it does every class has their own personality for sure.
>> That's awesome. All right. So, I wanted to start off by going back in time to, you know, 2016, which is only nine years ago, but yet it feels like possibly longer. Um, I think that's when we first met because you were, you just started working at Moz as their senior SEO scientist >> and I think you were already more into AI than SEO back at that point. So, what originally got you in AI and machine learning?
>> Yeah, good question. So, I got hooked by an online course that I found through GitHub because I thought GitHub is where all the technical things lived and I wanted to be more technical. And I remember seeing this ridiculous article about how data scientists were going to be the sexiest job of the future. And it just like planted this some stupid seed in my head. I'm like, what is that? Why would it be the sexiest job of the >> Were you like I want a sexy job. This is >> Yeah. 100%. I was like, I want to be cool. I want a sexy job. What's this?
>> And so I remember doing like more digging and I found Harvard's CS 109 data science course. And it was so funny because it was a great like sure intro into data science, but it was heavy on machine learning and what that was and how to train and fit a model and that was like the whole course project. And so I found these and it was every Tuesday and Thursday they would release the recordings and I consumed this class like it was my new favorite sitcom. I couldn't wait for those videos to drop.
I was hungry. I mean I was so hungry for something like I love games. I loved SEO at first and I I still really enjoy lots of aspects of SEO because it was something I could tinker with and figure out what moves the needle, right? But at a certain point in your SEO career, you're like, I've done, you know, I've tried all the back links and this and that and I needed another thing to scratch that itch. And this was probably 2012.
>> And so I found that course and I joke, I kid you not, like I think that really changed the trajectory of my career because I could not let it go. I just kept building models. I kept learning more about it. But to your point of us meeting in 2016, I had been, you know, pretty obsessed for four years, but it took me a long time to get the confidence to start talking about it because >> everyone starts somewhere. And I was sort of like, who am I? You know, I went to school for strategic PR. What what did these what does anyone want to hear from me about machine learning? Like I'm just retrofitting these models on my computer. I remember I was at a co-working space in Denver and I used to carry my computer like a baby when I first did emnest which is the hello world computer vision models. Highly recommend for any of those like listening and interested in the stuff.
Go build your own emnest and make people write down it. It's what the postal service uses. So it's the computer vision model to um understand or recognize handwritten numbers. And I was so proud of it. So I was I would make people in the office like write down a number any number. My model can ident like it's just it's fun. I think you have to make learning fun. You have to play with it. I would never have like fallen to this path had I not built confidence and built momentum through having fun with it. And so yeah, that's kind of the path I took. Then to MA where they really lit lit that on fire for me. They were like the fertilizer for my machine learning hungry brain. I mean, major shout out to, you know, Rand, Rob Uzby, Buchcci, Russ Jones, Dr.
Pete, I mean, Sarah Bird, everyone was so so supportive in ways that I didn't expect going into that job. And they were just so great at letting me play in that space and continue continue doing that.
>> That's awesome.
>> Yeah. So, um, one of the things too, we actually have a question coming in.
Sorry, I'm just looking at this here.
So, >> um, I don't know the name, but how did you overcome imposttor syndrome or, you know, your worthiness? Because you just touched on that a little bit, but like, >> how long did it take you to be like, okay, I feel like I know enough that I can actually talk about this now.
>> You know what's funny is I I still struggle. Like I know that's not probably like a >> you just did the keto at Brighton SEO >> and I was so terrified like so terrified. Um I know and I I think there's some weird progression that happens as you get deep into a technical field like this is you start to have uncover that feeling of like the more you learn the more you realize how much you don't know if that makes sense. But at the same time, I know going to marketing conferences and going to SEO conferences, I pretty early on started to recognize the opportunities for machine learning and how I could kind of start to have these conversations in a proper and efficient way and that's what made me really excited. Um I think the imposttor syndrome so it is so tricky but I think learning by doing builds your confidence like I again I don't think I would have been able to have started doing whiteboard Fridays or talks about machine learning had I not experienced my own models on my computer and dug into TensorFlow at the time which was you know this huge brand new thing and now I used to write you know hundreds of lines of TensorFlow which is now probably six lines with some of these other models and psychic learn and stuff like that. So yeah, I think learning by doing um and also just like embracing that discomfort. I think I always tell myself like growth doesn't happen in your comfort zone and like if you're a little bit uncomfortable like that's a really great thing and I try really hard to embrace it. Um and yeah, you just keep learning over time. There is something really refreshing too like now in the world of where we are with the AI marketers and AI and SEO and to see just the sheer volume of misinformation >> fills me with so much rage that I feel com I feel like I have to talk about you know like then there's like really I feel like that really sinks down that imposttor syndrome where it's like no wait a minute these people are so far off the mark like >> there has to be some some better conversations here.
>> That is that is such a great point because and also somebody commented that they can't hear me. I just turned up my mic so hopefully that helps too. But um one of the things that I find and like why I started talking about analytics.
Well, first off I got into analytics because I was bored with SEO. Same idea.
I was like how many times can I optimize this? But I think also I started talking about analytics. I was already talking about SEO, so it wasn't necessarily a big leap for me. But also, I was so frustrated by the misinformation out there in terms of reporting and analytics. And especially with G4, it drives me crazy the amount of bad information that's out there about G4.
And like look, I'm not a Google apologist. Like G4 has flaws, but some of the information that's out there is just like flatout wrong and it drives me wild. So I can imagine how you feel about that, too.
>> Wow.
>> So yeah. Um, we have another great question that's come in. This one from LinkedIn. Kristen, what's your framework for determining which marketing tools are actually worth automating with AI versus which ones still benefit from a fully human approach? Great question.
>> Great qu great great question, Kristen.
Thank you. Um, yeah, it's tricky. I think again a lot of this is the path to AI success is through experimentation and failure.
you should expect to fail when you're using AI for some new tasks that you have ideas for. That is literally how you carve out the workflow for what might eventually work for your task. I think step one of this framework for which marketing tasks are worth automating is taking a really good look at what LLM are qualified to do and what are they not qualified to do. Right? We know that they're terrible at math. They aren't number machines, they are language machines. Um, so don't trust them for, you know, your heavy research or datadriven research tasks. We need to pipe that data in. We could potentially use an LLM to say categorize or do some cool things with that. But I think having a basic benchmark of what at least LLMs, you know, in terms of putting AI into a model category, what they're qualified to handle and what they're not. And then it's so funny because I feel like uh you want to identify some of the more kind of boring, repetitive, redundant tasks that could save you a lot of time if it was either automated or done 80% of the way and to experiment with those workflows.
And what we have found in my course is that oftent times when marketers successfully start to solve for some of these tasks, these reoccurring tasks, is that AI is often just a teeny part of the process, a bigger part of the process is just where is the data required to do this thing? How do we pull that in somewhere that we can do something upon, right? And so I think to kind of put this in a nutshell, the framework is really starting problem first. Don't start with the technology.
Don't start with an AI tool. instead take a step back and identify actual real, you know, common valuedriven problems that if you had support here, um it would, you know, free up a lot of your time to work on some of the more human humanled work that you do. Like I I highly recommend like as far as writing and stuff like consider what is it that you bring to the table at in your current position that other people maybe don't have the same talent, experience or skills with. What is it that you're uniquely qualified to do? We're not trying to replace that. we are trying to make sure that that is sort of that shines and you let AI do some of the other things in the background so that you can spend more of your time doing those tasks and doing those tasks more efficiently. Um, I hope that's helpful.
But >> that's literally what we do for the course is like we just I make everyone come up with their task and we break it down because I this is the question, you know, >> and I think that idea of like 80% of it, you know, get to 80% and then that's what we use AI a lot for too is just like it's not going to be perfect. I would never publish anything AI made without reading it. But it can do the grunt work for you. The stuff that I'm not going to do.
>> Exactly. I think 80% is the sweet spot because you to your point you don't want it to just that's a reputational risk, right? And so to always have a human in the loop is so so so important >> for all sorts of tasks that I regularly see. Um just to vet out, qualify, make sure to doublech checkck different things. Yeah, that's huge.
>> Yeah. And I just learned about the phrase human in the loop. I saw that for the first time like a week ago, I think.
>> And so Yep. That's the new term now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Machine learning loves to over complicate things and in the AI world it's like few shot learning. It's literally just means give it examples.
It's literally it literally means give it two or more examples. I'm like come on. But this is what I mean. Like it's fun to kind of break down those barriers because if I can save someone all of the headaches and hassle I had to go through how great is that you know?
>> Yeah. So, we had a follow-up question about imposter syndrome from Denny, uh, who asks, "I'm planning to post about AIO SEO, and there's so much misinformation. How do you make sure that what they're sharing is accurate?
So, what uh what do you do?" >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great question. Um, it's good to have like a trusted sounding board. This is part of something I'm kind of building right now and plan to release in a couple of weeks is like an actual space and a community for you to ask these types of questions because right now there is no good place for marketers to go. There really is unless you have different contacts that you know and have an established relationship with. You can't typically just fire this off to someone in AI and say, "Hey, is this is this okay?" Um, I think you know you use AI to help with the research. How do I know was it? So I would certainly check or you know run it twice. Are the results different? That's a common one that I see a lot or people that come to me saying that they're using chat GPT to do all their keyword research and I see the workflow and they're just asking it, you know, to provide all this search volume and I I say run it twice. let me know how that goes because it's a predictive model.
The outputs are going to be different each time.
>> Um, and so I think the fact Denny that you're asking this question means that you're like in such a great space to do well with AI because you have the awareness to know that yeah, there is so much misinformation and you want to make sure that what you share is accurate. I think that level of thoughtfulness is what is going to serve marketers so well moving forward. More and more marketers that can ask questions like what Denny just asked here are going to set themselves up for success long term and also better navigate some of those like ethical concerns that will pop up for marketers. Um so I would say keep asking questions like this. I would rerun your research a couple times, double check, right? um and go through those results to see if it matches up with the research that you asked it to do and then consider the different ways that you could pull in the research directly.
So that's something I try to help students with is always consider you know like where can I get the data or there's so many tools available there's so many APIs there's so many possibilities to get direct real time access to different data sets which might might help you here in the future great great question I love that you're asking that bravo >> yeah I feel like the awareness of asking the question means you're going to be okay right what's it Dunning Krueger syndrome right it's like >> yes tell Well, people haven't heard of this. Dunning Krueger is the people who are too incompetent to realize they're incompetent. So, they think they're competent. So, just by the factor that you know that maybe you might not know what you know, then you're fine. So, >> you're totally fine.
>> You're already ahead of most people who are just spouting off on on LinkedIn, you're probably fine.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh Brian asks, "Many clients and execs want their brands to be seen in LLMs, but I'm waiting for the shoe to drop on measuring impact." So, if you don't mind, I'll talk to you about some of the stuff I've been measuring lately, and then you tell me how you feel about that. Okay.
>> So, a couple posts that I have on my website. Our most popular post this year, hands down, is how to measure people coming to the website from AI tools. So, making a channel in G4 for people coming to the website from ChatGpt, from uh Claude, from Perplexity doesn't capture everything. And somebody please tell ChatGpt to start fixing their UTMs because they're wrong. Uh, but what I am finding for every client I set that up for, I look at the conversion rate and return rate and I just published a post I think last Thursday on making audiences in G4 for first touch AI, return touch AI, any touch AI and zero-ouch AI. And what I'm finding is that AI audiences on the whole have better return rates and higher conversion rates than people who come to the website who have never been there via AI. And I think it's because AI like prevets people before they come in, right? AI is like I trust this source and for some reason we trust AI.
So we're like yes, of course. It's like being told by a friend it's like a referral lead, >> right?
>> And so that's what I'm seeing is that they are warmer. It's a very small percentage of traffic but like what are you seeing in terms of you know when somebody says to you well I believe that AI is all this volume of sales or whatever and at this impact and you look at the data and it doesn't quite bear that out but you know what are you doing for measuring impact >> I mean I think I'm I'd follow your lead on this Dana you're the analytics bro like that was really insightful and I like how yeah that just even the measuring of that like onetouch AI would you say multi-touch AI and no touch AI.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Very, very interesting. I do think you're on to something with the nuance that happens when you're interacting with an AI chatbot like chat GPT, right?
You are giving it so much more information about what it is that you hope to accomplish, you hope to do. It is unlike just a kind of a vague keyword search. You're speaking in in natural language. And so it makes sense that they're they are a bit more vetted out that they have kind of described, you know, reasons or multi- you know, contextual things that led them to your course. Um, super super interesting. I think it's a little bit of a different conversation with all of these clients and execs wanting to be seen in LLMs.
And this is where I see most SEOs get it wrong because the conversations that we are having are not reflective of the actual technology. And so to take a step back and break down, there's two different parts at play here when you're when you want to be seen in an LLM. The first foundational aspect of not incorporating any type of search data, just a traditional LLM that's not connected to Bing or Google. The way that you show up is it is a bit of a popularity contest. You know, they are the mediocre generating engine. So based on everything they've ever trained on, which is essentially all of the internet, they tend to surface the brands and the companies that they have seen or read about most often as it relates to particular contexts. So these language models, you know, they they take in all of the internet's text and they create these like mathematical multi-dimensional worlds basically that position um language in different areas as it relates to all these other things. You will have a stronger position the more you're seen and as you're seen closer to the context you want to show up for. So maybe that's your industry or a specific product um or a specific issue you want to you know you need to be seen a lot online in regards to that. Now these models are trained not even once a year anymore because it costs over hund00 million to retrain them and it literally takes a full year to train. So these companies have been bleeding cash retraining the last couple of models and they're not seeing the return on performance. And so we don't we actually don't even know what that's going to look like in the near future or if they'll retrain next year because there's so much AI slop online. It's sort of like eating itself. Anyways, so that you know you can optimize for that maybe once a year, right? As these models inherently foundationally retrain, the way that they have progressed and gotten better and better with some real time outputs is they connect to search results to real time either through Bing or to Google real time content and information to feed the models kind of contextual awareness about results to surface better, more accurate, real-time information for you in the in the LLM. And so ChatGpt does that, right? We know Gemini does that.
They're accessing search engines in a retrieval augmented generation kind of loop. So you ask the traditional LLM prompt, but it pulls in all of these results up here to then take that into consideration for the answer. That being said, the only way you show up when they're pulling in these search results is through tra traditional SEO, right?
We can have some there's been some really cool progress on like what the searches are that the LLMs are doing to pull in that. You can see that right as of today. You can see that in OpenAI's API. you can actually get the search data like the search queries that they're pulling to fill that kind of rag contextual real-time context. Anytime you see a URL, it's from the search results. Anytime you know there's a links involved or real time updates, again remember the model hasn't been trained in over a year. So for those SEOs that are saying relevance is so important for AI search, the models haven't been trained in over a year. I promise you they don't care that you updated this a week ago, but SEO, you know, search engines care. And now you're being we're rediscovering SEO, which drives me so freaking insane.
I can't even >> Oh, me too. I can't even. It's like, it's just SEO. It's just SEO. Yeah. Liz Liz and I, we have a channel uh where we share social posts on our our Slack, and whenever Liz or I post something, the other person's like, "It's just SEO.
It's just SEO. It's just SEO. That's all it is. you're literally rediscovering SEO and calling in other names so that you know you can appear on the cutting edge and people can sign up for your stuff. It's like no, it's literally just maybe it's like a scaled SEO, right?
Like SEO might be more important now than ever for all these different queries that allow you to cover more real estate in search so that you have a higher propensity to show up in these LLM outputs. So yeah, SEO is clearly not dead, but I think having those conversations with, you know, your stakeholders and your clients right now is so important for expectation setting and walking them through like uh the clear definition of things and explaining that and also showing it to them. You know, I oh my god, one of my students just taught me this great analogy for search results versus AI results. And he said, this is Grant Brought. He said um you know the way that he explains it to clients is he says showing up in traditional search results is like having your product on the shelf of a store. Showing up in an AI output is like having the checkout clerk at the store recommend your product, right? We >> Oh, that's great. Isn't that good? We can't control what they say and maybe they don't always say it, right? Or it's like you're at Costco and like here's the sample person.
>> Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Exactly. So it's like at the, you know, you're sort of at the disposal of of these predictive models that also are changing all the time, right? They're getting like fine-tuned and tweaked constantly. it is. We are trying to apply old archaic SEO thinking to a completely different technology and we need to be really clear and careful about how we're having these conversations so that we're not leading clients and people astray in terms of trying to talk like this is a SEO play um to to show up in in AI. You know, it's not a search engine. It's very different. But yes, I think traditional SEO is the primary part at least like what you can control right now, you know, instead of waiting to depend on lot, you know, brand mentions, which I joke like brand mentions are the new backlinks, right? And I do there's a lot of truth to that as trained, but >> yeah, I don't know that was a lot of like feel like I just threw up. Well, I I always think of when you think when you talk about like you're on Claude and you do a search or you like ask it a question and then it goes out and does a search. It's like do you remember Dog Pile?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. It's AI is the new dog pile. My My father-in-law loved that website.
>> He would he would actually go on Dog Pile and sometimes Google Google. He'll never be watching this, so it's okay that I'm teasing about him a little bit.
He was in the Navy. Computers are not his thing. So, yeah, it's it's it's pretty funny that we're just back at Dog Pile again. Everything old is new again, right?
>> Literally. Literally. It's so funny. It is funny.
>> Uh Jeff asks, "Do you look at whether LLMs are using grounding for specific ROI generating searches before deciding whether to optimize or not?
>> I'm not sure about the phrase grounding.
Is that an AI term that I'm not familiar with?" >> Well, it's funny because we joke that uh you know AI has no ground truth. They have no Yes. Um, but I think maybe Jeff's probably referring to grounding um like with the search results with real- time content, which would make sense.
So, >> yeah.
>> Um, yeah, I'm not sure using grounding.
>> Maybe Jeff, if you want to um rephrase, >> I think if it is using the grounding and you are already showing up a bunch for those, then you're probably fine, you know. Um, yeah. I just had a great chat with uh Bernard from Clear Scope.
>> Yeah, great tool. Oh my god, I was I have to say I was so I'm so skeptical of this stuff and I'm such like a hard critic, but the way that he's thinking about this like validation layer of having like these queries and coming up with possible, you know, potential prompts for these common high-V value queries for you and then understanding what are the common searches that these AI tools will perform to pull in this stuff and then you have all that information to really strategically target. Okay, these are the search terms that cover most real estate for these AI outputs that we could. But again, it's like I struggle. I think that is that's the smartest approach I have discovered yet by a company doing this. Um, and I still struggle because I feel like we're measuring a magic eightball, you know, like it is. So, I think that part of it I'm like, oh, but I go Bernard. Like they're absolutely killing it. So, check out >> Absolutely. And I'm just going to toss a banner in here. Um, we're a Clear Scope partner. I imagine you are too.
>> Um, so if you do want to try out Clear Scope, you can get a deal by going to that link. I don't usually share these kinds of links, but Clear Scope is like one of the tools that we've actually used for years and they just relaunched all their stuff. And so what I've been doing is going through my course pages and putting them into Clear Scope and the kind of stuff I'm uncovering that I was totally missing out on. And like I've been doing SEO for 25 years now.
like I know a thing or two about it, but but using a tool like Clear Scope really helps like get you just that little bit further and also kind of get you out of your head, especially like I'm too close to my course content to sometimes take a step back and I think that that's where these kinds of tools are really fantastic. So try it out. I think you'd be pleasantly surprised by what uh what it uncovers. So >> I've been so impressed.
>> I'm a big Clear Scope fan. Yeah. And Bernard is great. If you have any questions, reach out to him on LinkedIn.
Super open and helpful and everything.
Yeah.
>> So smart.
Um, okay. Oh, >> back to us. Here we go. So, grounding is using rag retrieval instead of use light and traded. Okay, I'll let you speak to this.
>> Um, let me It's so funny.
Okay, so his original is, do you look at whether LLMs are using grounding for specific ROI generating searches?
>> Yeah. So, this is the original. And then by grounding, he means using rag retrieval instead of utilizing the train training data.
>> Yeah. I have to be honest, I haven't like gone down that rabbit hole just yet. Um, it's funny, in the last week, I had a student that was trying to perform his own like automated AI query and like collection through like m like selenium and like mimicking it. And I was like, we could just do this via the OpenAI API and collect all the backend searches and collect any URLs that are surfaced. And so we together kind of built this collab notebook that automates that whole process with a list of keywords and it's pretty awesome and he's continuing to kind of refine it for what he's working on. But I feel like the APIs are so easily accessible today that it's actually incredibly inexpensive and easy if you know just a little bit of programming to set up stuff like this and to have it run, you know, have a little bit more control over how often it's running or maybe checking these things, you know, I have a client, we'll check it um like every other day and we're starting to get a better idea of the actual probability ilities that might be under the hood of an AI surfacing some of their things.
And so I think again I don't know I love the flexibility of just like building your own thing but I know if you're not um interested there are there are other tools available.
>> Yeah. I mean to be honest whenever anybody says API my brain immediately is like nope can't do that because it's not >> I'm not a developer. No I'm not a developer. Okay so here's the thing.
I've tried for years to learn how to code. I even ran a ladies learning code chapter in Edmonton when I lived there.
And the thing is, so when I this is going to be a per bit of a personal story. So when I got diagnosed with ADHD, which happened actually around 2017, let me turn this banner off too.
Um I was like, okay, this has been the problem all along. I have medication now. Now I can learn how to code. Still can't. So when I can read other people's code, that's fine. I was a technical writer for years with my degree in geography, of course, that naturally leads to technical writing, which led to marketing. But I think it's just yeah, I just with APIs, my brain just shuts off.
So maybe I need to take your your course and you can teach me how to use APIs.
>> Well, you don't have to you don't have to know exactly how to pull it in anymore. You just ask Claude. You literally >> That's true. I should probably just ask Claude.
>> Put your key in. It's ne literally It's never been easier.
>> Okay.
>> You have no You can do >> Try it again. Fine. I want to see you do this because I feel like with your like experience and background like you would come up with some insane workflows that would be just like legendary. So please let me pull me in if I can help.
>> All right, I will deal.
>> Uh okay, so uh Kristen, another great question. As LLM continue to evolve so quickly, how do you balance investing time and learning current best practices versus building more transferable knowledge base and skills? Yeah, this is >> very good.
>> Yeah, >> very very good. I think this is so important. Um, I think you have to learn enough to be dangerous, right? You have to like learn the fund fundamentals. Um, I actually wrote a beginner's guide to LLMs to try to just help people do this through reading a guide and then they're they should be good to go. Things like that. I know there's other resources out there, um, will help you get up to speed really quickly. And then my whole kind of MO for students and is just like learn by doing. Start showing up every day, trying to do things every day. This is what I literally just spoke with my students about is like keep showing up, keep trying things. Don't let these like failures and setbacks like affect you or kind of weigh you down because that is normal. Like that is how machine learning works. There's a reason why we have collab notebooks in the first place in this environment where you can quickly get a proof of concept because most things don't work. Most things don't work and we have to continue to change or iterate. And so it's an it's a nice easy environment to just play and to experiment with this stuff, but to kind of learn the fundamentals and then evolve by learning by doing. And that is lit. There's no better teacher than putting this stuff into action because I just had a great student, Emma, who added um this story in our in our course chat about how she tried using Claude to to do this specific thing and quickly recognized how it struggled to do X, Y, and Z, but was incredible at these other things that she's going to remember that for probably the rest of her career. I you know it's one thing to learn about her to hear someone like me say it. It's a whole another thing to experience it and so highly highly and it builds your confidence as well like you owe it to yourself to show up every day and to try for 30 minutes just to play with this tech in a way and to take the pressure off you know have fun with it. That's the other thing I try to tell people is like it shouldn't be this like serious high pressure thing. Um it should be it should be fun.
>> Yeah. Well, and if you do it now before you have to do it, then >> like that's the thing with analytics is there's so much planning in advance, especially with J4, which is why I think people hate it. Universal Analytics was like, "Here you go. I thought you might need this, so here you go." And J4 is like, "No, you tell me. I'm not going to do it unless you tell me." And so I think that that's where people are annoyed at it. But yeah, taking that time in advance so that you're not panicked when it actually, you know, somebody's like, "Oh, like look, I've already baked this cake. It's in the oven. Here you go." Um, that's Exactly.
That's exactly right. That's exactly right.
>> Um, and just to play off that real quick, too, I saw >> Oh, yeah. Let me go back to it.
>> Oh, yeah. Go back to that. But I was gonna say this plays in nicely to what Timothy says too about like our conversation with the APIs and the Reddit course the other day. So, Timothy, you got a special peek at that because we can't get the recording to work. We're going to re-record that. But any side table um pulling in Reddit data of realtime conversations that your audience is having. This has set some of my students on fire. Uh Bushan, who might still be here, just created the world's most incredible Reddit dashboard that collects all of his target market information and is helping him help clients identify like locations of service opportunity. What are the most highest concerns right now related to this service? What can we add to our FAQ pages? I mean, he's making >> so smart.
>> Oh my god, he's got all like it is so incredible what happens when you start to pull in data through an API like Reddit and apply really smart questions.
And that's something that is a little bit of like a tough love moment in the course is I so commonly see SEOs and market and you oh my god Dana you've got to see this all the time of people creating the everything dashboard like they want and I I've been there. I've been there more than I can count the everything dashboard. You want all this information >> and there's a saying in data science that goes data is cheap. Good questions are expensive.
>> Oh, I like that. Yes. You and it's so true and I really try to like >> encourage students to like this is great but you really have to take the time >> to consider what are the high value questions that would make this actionable you know that would make this val more valueoriented and so that's something I like to kind of emphasize too.
>> Yeah for sure. Yeah. Actually, speaking of uh training, so Mandy Elsa does a fantastic Looker Studio blog. I recommend his work all the time. So, if you need help with Looker Studio, go check his stuff out. But um things move so fast. What is the update frequency for courses in the field? Yeah. As someone who does G4 courses, it's so great. Every time I come back from vacation and there's eight things that are different and I have to update all these videos now, do you have the same problem? I mean, you do live cohort, which I feel like is maybe a bit easier, but how often do you have to update your stuff?
You know, it's funny like the the core fundamentals that I teach in the first class don't change. They haven't changed for over two years. It's kind of doubling down if anything. The parts that change are introducing new tools to help get things done. So like a a new tool in the last couple cohorts has been the Phantom Buster, which pulls >> I love Phantom Buster.
>> Yeah. Pulls in LinkedIn data. And like again, it's all about where is the data.
LinkedIn is notoriously impossible to scrape. their API is >> non-existent.
>> Yeah.
>> So, uh having something like that is a game changer for things like that. Um >> but yeah, also Medie, can you drop your blog link in the chat? I want to check that out. I just drop it. I'll share it.
>> I had Looker Studio questions a lot this course. I'm like, I don't know.
>> You can always ask me too for sure. But yes, his his stuff is like I didn't even think Looker Studio could do that. So that's I've learned some crazy things from him. Yeah, >> I love it because I'm always like you want more control over the dashboard. So why don't you build your own Flask and Reaskk React dashboard, but people don't want to do that and so I I get I get it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh so um some people's names don't come through. Just FYI, it's a LinkedIn. Speaking of LinkedIn being restrictive, this is an example.
>> Does G4 have an MCP connector? It does.
Um but okay, so here's my thing about MCPs. I don't like them because I find that when you use an MCP, you're getting the AI or whatever you're using to talk to the the pro like talk to the data, you're getting it to make judgment calls. What I prefer doing is exporting the data of exactly what I want the AI to look at and then telling it to only deal with this specific data set. And I actually just have a course that came out on LinkedIn Learning on using analyzing G4 data in AI. And part of what I talk about there is like if you give it too much data, it will go wild and it because it doesn't know the context. And so you have to supply the context. You can't just be like, "Hey, how is the site performing because it's going to cry and it's going to give you some crap." So I'm not a fan of MCPS, but tell me if I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. You gave me a thumbs up, so I assume I'm not wrong, but >> you're not wrong. I well this is I'm blanking on her name but this uh researcher wrote a great blog post saying that the S in MCP stands for security and I just couldn't agree more.
So >> that uh oh mediev link with lerstudio.com yes check it out although I mean the things that we had to update when they changed it from Google data studio to looker studio >> is uh a lot. So, Google, please don't change the name again, even though the current name is silly.
>> Oh my god, >> Studio was a perfectly fine name. Lucer Studio was a horrible name, but that's what we've got. Please don't change it again, Google. Thank you.
>> That's so funny. That is so funny.
>> Yeah, >> I see Van in chat. See, Dana, no coding at all. So, he dashboard. That is insane. I mean, truly, I'm like, >> he should have caught my Reddit webinar earlier this week. It's unbelievable. I can't. Okay. He I also created an award for Bushan in this last cohort for um getting blocked by the Reddit API.
That's a huge >> congratulations.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Good job.
>> So that these are the things that need to be like recognized and celebrated when you're working with AI. That's awesome.
>> Get maxed out on your >> My favorite thing. So I have a couple 3D printers and my favorite thing to print are fake awards for silly achievements.
So, uh, yeah, if you if you want to got blocked by the Reddit API award, you just let me know. I'll figure something out.
>> Oh, nice. So good.
>> Um, Timothy, yes, everyone needs to carve out some tinker time. So, I don't know about you, I have a standing meeting with myself every day. I have this little notebook over here and I go through my learning folder, which is just like interesting stuff that I've seen and I read and I take notes because if I don't write it down, I'll never remember. Um, and I also spend time, Fridays is really my tinker day to like try stuff out. So, what about you?
What's your like non, you know, work tinker time? What do you have a schedule for yourself or do you just like dive into stuff? What's your How do you keep up?
>> It's so funny and borderline a little embarrassing, but um I So, I have an aura ring. I swear this is all connected. I have an aura ring and for a long time like >> I wasn't seeing any of the there's a stress meter and you can be stressed and then the lowest is restored. I'm like what does it take for me to get restored? Like holy cow I'm trying all these things and I only get in the restored space usually when I'm reading.
And so I'm like oh this is good for me but I like there's something I think in just in me that like finds peace and like enjoyment in learning new things.
It's just so much fun. And so oftent times, I was doing this more regularly before things got crazy this season, but I was trying to read um like an AI paper every Saturday, and I I I in a serious committed relationship with my printer.
I love it dearly. I refill my own cartridges. I'm constantly covered in ink, but I like I love reading new papers that certain people are talking about. So, this kind of ties in nicely to to an earlier question about like how do you stay on top of like all the updates and learning. I will religiously follow about 25 AI researchers who I you know really admire their work. I have followed their stuff and they've got great ethics and I've either worked with them but like I just really really trust them and so when several of them start talking about one you know AI paper or one advancement then I dive into it otherwise there's just way too much noise. Um I also have like if we're in my office I have a stack of AI books that maybe I could grab or take a picture of.
Like I love this stuff. Like I it just like fuels me. So I find like it's just fun like either in the morning or like before I go to bed, which again this sounds embarrassing, but like I just love learning about about this stuff.
Like if I could reread um The Pattern on the Stone, is that what it's called? The P the Pattern on the Stone. It's a real short book. It's like super little. Um, but it teaches you like how transistors and computers actually work on a physical level. I >> Okay, >> that was like that was like a religious experience for me because we're pushing pixels all day long and to actually like I just I was like yelling the whole time I was reading it. I was just like, "Oh my god." Like, "You got to be kidding me.
Like we could create a computer out of sticks and strings. Like what are you talking about? This is I love that. I love that stuff. I don't know. It's really >> I feel like I know a lot of that because my dad um so going back into my history so my my dad actually worked at a steel fac steel factory but he was in the sensors department like is the steel the right temperature and the right width.
So he like took extra parts home >> of that was like computer bits that no one was using. And so I ended up with a computer at home and actually was like even when I went to university in 1993 cuz I'm old but I had a modem which was very unusual for 93 got my that's the year the first web browser came out like that's that's the age we're talking about here >> and being able to play with that early but then understand because he was an electrician how that stuff works >> and so being able to like learn from him about soldering and like this is how these transistors and I had a great high school class as well where we worked on threadboards which is like an early way to learn electronics and like what the different pieces do. So I think yeah learning about these basic things can teach you a lot about how they go. Um you know just how does it all work?
>> How does it work? Yeah.
>> So >> how do you Yeah. I never do learning right before bed because then my mind would just go. How do you manage to fall asleep?
>> Dream I had a dream last night about this. This was my last class today with this cohort. And I dreamt up two things I had to talk about before like introducing a guest lecture. Like I it's not good. Like I know I need to switch it off, but I do I do find like so much like joy and fun in it. Um I've been really trying to push myself to read more um non or fiction books >> and like have more fun, you know, reading and doing stuff like that. Uh because you you probably should switch it off a bit more. Um >> reading the the alphabet mystery stories again, which I find to be so there's a lot of them. It's all the same character. It's Yeah, it's a classic mystery series >> set in the 80s in California. Yeah, it's super great. So that's that's one thing >> that's so fun.
>> I also shut off my brain, by the way, Justine, if you struggle with this, um by listening to Brown Noise, which is different than white noise. I find white noise annoying. Brown noise sounds like a flight >> and uh it's perfect. Even though I can't sleep on planes ever, but apparently brown noise immediate >> puts me to sleep.
>> Funny. That's so funny. I love that.
>> Yeah. And I I feel like she asked this too because she does the same thing. She says that finding peace and learning that's that's you too. And I love that.
I think there's something really beautiful about that. And also I think being out in nature is like for me that like I take try to take my shoes off and like ground. I'm witchy. I like crystals. I'm love trees. Like I will say my disconnect is the arborist subreddit on on Reddit and just learning about trees. I have like this obsession.
I swear we like purchased this house because of the trees in the backyard. I think connecting with things in the real world, even like physical hobbies, like Dana, your 3D printing that's got to feel so good to see a physical object. I think oftentimes if you were to try to explain digital marketing or SEO to someone before computers, they would just be like what do you mean you're just changing things on a screen like that doesn't make you know that would be like someone going to their wood shop and just working on the same table decade after you know changing little things like yeah that it's wild. We should be working with some physical things just as a as a >> absolutely no like I joke in my bio that I collect hobbies but most of them are just like physical and I also live out in the woods now so that's uh yeah surrounded by trees at all times so it's it's important to get out into nature >> yeah isn't like the dream location >> yes come visit Vancouver Island it's lovely and it almost never snows I would love >> it's barely Canada >> that' be so awesome fun fact about um like machine learning and the current >> ceiling we're at with compute quantum would really unlock like a whole new level of like AGI like capabilities. I my personal belief is we don't get there until we achieve quantum mechanics in a way that you know quantum computing will take off and help process these more efficiently and at scale.
>> In fact, the leaves are all changing colors right now for fall. If AI researchers were able to understand like the the synthesis that happens through the sun and the conversion into food like we could we could basically create stronger computers and we don't know how it works. And I think that's such a fun thing to think about and like go on a walk and just be like, "Oh my god, nature holds all the secrets." All the secrets does. I mean this is I guess this is where my geography degree applies here because I did take a lot of biology courses. It was a science degree and uh yeah there is some wild stuff that happens out in the world. My particular focus was on river restoration but like learning just the chaos of a river is very actually controlled and has a pattern and it's it's something that uh yeah it's super interesting. I'll do a separate webinar all about fluial geomorphology. People will love it for sure.
>> Please. Oh my gosh, that's so >> I still remember all this stuff. Okay, so we're almost at time, so I just want to wrap it up with one last question.
So, what gets you excited about the future of AI? Like, what do you think's going to happen in and I'm not going to go five years from now because who knows, but let's say 2026, which is not that far from now. What do you think is going to happen next year when it comes to AI? And what are you excited about?
Yeah, I'm super excited about kind of the rise of I'm not excited about the rise of AI slot, but I'm excited by what happens after that, right? We get fatigued. We're sick of this. We crave real human content. We crave real photos. We crave real, you know, personalityfilled writing. I think there is going to be an increase of value placed on creative writing, creative images, creative marketing work. I would I also think this is going to push us into the world of um communities and connection with one another. I look forward to seeing more communities, more in-person events and gatherings. I I'm I'm betting that there's going to be like old school guorilla marketing in the future that isn't AI, right? It's like provably not AI. Um >> I see things like that moving forward and shining while there will also unfortunately be a rise of companies that will continue to put their reputation at risk implementing these things in the wrong way. Um but I am really excited about that sort of pendulum shift back to back to real world real human uh value ads that you know and again it's important to understand that AI has no ground truth right it doesn't live in the world we live in it doesn't know what gravity is just ch it's trained on all of the world's text AI has no friends right it has no strong opinions um and so what we bring to the table and I hate seeing people undermine themselves and undermine one another's intelligence is we bring so much more value to the table than AI today because we have shared experiences with one another. This is why people love to get information information on Reddit. you know, they know it's likely real human stories and experiences. And I think honing in on that and making sure that we're, you know, doing that in the right way, like I'm excited for that.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I am too. And I think uh I also think that people will stop saying AI slop and it'll just be slop like how it used to be email spam and now it's just spam.
>> Um I think that that's what's going to happen. Slop is the slop is the spam and that's how it is.
>> Good. It will just be slop. Right.
>> It'll just be slop. Yeah. And I think about it too with like when ebooks first came out and people were like, "Oh, books are dead." Like, no, books are not dead. What happened was that books got better at cover design. There are limited editions of books. Books push the physical experience more. And I think, yeah, I agree. I think that AI will will have that same kind of renaissance when it comes to to pushing that stuff. So, >> yes. Yes.
>> I love that.
>> I hope so. Anyway, >> I hope so, too. And I hope we hold these companies accountable. Like I I hate seeing people kind of put accountability on users when it's like why is Google telling me that they want to characterize an image I took yesterday with AI and like set the earth's fresh water on fire doing it. You know, like these companies are they have no accountability over >> the environmental the the bias that shows up like all the time in both the text and the image models. I think I really hope and we're starting to see some of that push back, right? Like state of California is pushing back on chat bots right now, which is a great first step. Also Pinterest last week is pushing back on slop. We're just gonna start calling it that, Dana. back. Yeah, just slap. So that's that's hopeful, right? So like some we're starting to get some momentum, but I hope we can get more >> people more initiatives around that.
>> Oh, there's so much on Pinterest, too.
It is horrible. I mean, as someone who does like woodworking and 3D printing, I go on there a lot for ideas and it's just it's just all slob. It's horrible.
So yeah, >> although related to images like Brian's, there'd be higher demand for visual outputs. People don't love reading, but they should. People should love reading.
>> They should. get into a restored state, people.
>> Yes.
>> I I used to wear a whoop and I feel like I should probably try it on again and start reading and see what it says. So, >> yeah. Yeah. Let me know. I think it's >> Yeah, I will for sure.
>> I tell my students I'm like books are undervalued, like underrated, especially some of the newer ones that just came out like Codependent is really, really good. Um, the Empire of AI by Karen How is incredible. If you just want like comedic relief about AI and it puts into perspective how a small group of men with very big egos are making all these decisions, read Burnbook by Cara Swisser. Like um, >> oh, so good. Cara, everything Cara has to say is great. Yes, >> I am obsessed with Cara Swisser. She is >> Cara's fantastic.
>> She's a riot.
>> And she also knows where all the bodies are buried, too. And she doesn't care.
So yeah, >> she does not care. She just she shoots it straight. I love her. We need her. We need more Cara Swissers. I have thought about that so much. Like we're losing journalists I really used to depend on to all of this hype. Like several of the ones that I used to recommend people pay attention to. They're writing books about AGI and I've like lost hope in some of their content. Kira Swiss is ride or die. She is gonna say it how it is, you know.
>> Well, Jessica, you can use burn book as your next book club. Yeah, >> I think automating inequality by Virginia Eubanks is a must-read for really everyone. Um, thinking in systems has like some really cool tangential topics that are really powerful. Um, the uh, weapons of math destruction by Kathy O'Neal.
>> I've read that, too. That's great.
>> Yeah, I believe Tim Tim Grew just came out with one I'm blanking on. But I mean there's there's just so many incredible books that are worth the time, worth the read, worth going to.
>> Well, you can start a book club on your new uh community that launch.
>> I am I actually am you know Thomas uh Hefki or I don't know how to say his last name, but he he reads an insane number of books every year, but he brought that up and we were like, "All right, we're starting it." So, yeah, look out. And Jessica, you can join our book club and we'll we'll share notes.
>> Perfect. I the library, too.
>> I know. Yeah, we've had a bunch of comments about the library. I go to the library. It's cute. I mean, it's a tiny little It's a Vancouver Island library.
So, it's Yeah, for all the little towns on the island. So, >> it's the best. Just the >> It is quite stars hollow here if people have watched Gilmore Girls at all. So, >> all right. So, we are at time. So before we go, I just want to say next webinar November 18th, the last one of 2025.
2025 has flown by for at least for me. I don't know about anyone else. So I will be posting that to the Analytics Playbook LinkedIn page later this week.
Uh watch for an invite to that. And you're also going to get an email with a discount on my analy courses along with the replay of this webinar. So if you don't see that email or you're on YouTube and you haven't registered on LinkedIn, make sure to message me and I will send that your way. And I will see you back here November 18th. And again, thank you so much, Britney, for coming today. I really appreciate this. I think people got a ton out of this conversation. And uh yeah, if you have not if you need an AI advisor, Britney is your person. Sign up now for her cohort in January before it fills up.
You can find that. It's called Actionable AI for Marketers and it's on maven.com.
Anything else you want to add where people should follow you now?
>> This is so awesome. Keep an eye out for that community that will be hard launching here in a couple weeks and >> I will be sure to mention it and I will put it in my newsletter too. So yeah, if you haven't subscribed to the playbook huddle, please do and I'll make sure to mention it there.
>> All right, thanks everyone. Have a good rest of your day, evening, morning, whatever time it is for you. Bye bye.
Bye.
