# LinkedIn Post: AEO/GEO Is Just SEO - Watch This
- **Author:** Nathan Gotch
- **Target Link:** https://www.linkedin.com/posts/nathangotch_aeogeo-is-just-seo-watch-this-activity-7472346313221656576-JFcM/

## Text Content

"AEO/GEO is just SEO!"

Watch this:

### Transcript

So the biggest debate in SEO and a E over the last couple of years is whether A or Geo is just SEO, right? If you just do well in traditional search, you should theoretically do well in the AI platforms. And that is true. And obviously many ways, but I do want to show you this particular example. So so I'm inside rank ability and there's a new feature in here. If you go to compare, you can actually look at the correlation between the traditional search engines and the AI platform. So specifically looking at. The traditional search results and in looking at the AI citation specifically, we're looking at the I answers. In this case, we're just looking at the citations and seeing how closely connected are these. So what you can do is you can filter by the whatever search engine you want. So Google Bing brave dot dot go and you can see here in this case, I filtered by Google and you're going to see this across the four examples on about to show you. But perplexity is it's like almost a one to one match as far as being correlated with Google search. Right, when we look at this, it's pretty insane. Like we have perplexity here and you go down here and look at the little slope graph, you can see that if you are ranking in traditional search, you're very likely to be a citation in perplexity. It's just like almost a one to one match. This one is ridiculous, about 100%, but if you go to some of the other ones, you'll see this one's 100%. We'll go over to this one, another 100%, and then this one is about 88%. So based on the hundreds and hundreds of reports that we've studied. This is very correlated, OK? Perplexity is basically a replica of Google. I mean, to be totally honest, it's it's basically a reverse engineered Google search. And that is how it basically works. And then of course what it spits out to the user is of course in a chat experience. And I answer, but the, the piping, the the mechanisms that it uses is really just pulling from Google search. Based on what I see here, based on a lot of study, this is this is what we see, OK? So perplexity is the most obvious one. Now if we look at some of the others, we'll take a look at ChatGPT in particular, because it has the most market share when it comes to AI platforms. You can see that it actually does not use Google a whole lot, which is kind of crazy when you look at this very, very different story we're seeing here, right? We're very different story. Chachi BT is using different sources, different mechanisms for ultimately enhancing that answer. It doesn't just go to Google search and just extract directly from Google search or even any, any search engine. For that matter, it's pretty crazy because even when you look at Brave, it pulls actually more from Brave. There's more correlation with Brave than Google and then DuckDuckGo, there's even no correlation basically at all. So it's it's not doing, it's not going to traditional search as much as a lot of people like to believe. And we see this over and over. We'll take a look at another report here. You can see we'll look at chat LGBT. I mean, it's virtually no correlation here whatsoever. We'll go again over here, look at ChatGPT again, once again, very little crossover. And then finally once again, ChatGPT at the very bottom. OK, so as far as the connection between ranking and traditional Google search and being a cited source inside of ChatGPT, not much of A connection based on what I've seen. So, so where does that leave us now you might, you might ask, is this polling from Chad GBT API or directly from the real consumer user interface? This is pulling directly from the consumer. We are actually scraping ChatGPT. To get this. So this is the big difference. Like this is reality. This is not this is not pulled directly from the API. So this is very important because this whole narrative that if you just do well in Google, you're going to do well everywhere is just, it's simply not true. OK. It's a very good starting point, by the way, like you, you should be doing well in Google. That is a good idea. You should be working to not just rank your website. You're trying to rank multiple assets on the first page of Google. And I'll show you an example of this just to kind of prove how powerful this can be. I'll show you, let's see if I can find it. This one here, yeah, this one, HubSpot AO alternatives. OK, so here's the power of doing this is like, instead of thinking like, alright, we gotta rank our one page on our website and then we move on to our next keyword. I want you to start thinking more about how do we, how do we dominate the search results as much as possible? Because what I have found is when you dominate the search result as much as possible, you greatly increase your odds of influencing those AI answers. So it's actually a mechanism in here that measures search domination. And you can see what you can do is you'll actually you can see. Our specific page targeting this, obviously, but then we see LinkedIn, this is also an owned asset. So you can manually pick these if they're your actual owned assets. Coming here, we see we got another one here, YouTube, another one LinkedIn, again, the same exact thing. And so you can see this, this is what you want to see because the more spots you can occupy, the greater odds you have of being used in retrieval. OK, so and plus, it's not just retrieval. This also is critical for when Common Crawl does its monthly assessment of the Internet. And does a full crawl, like the more visible you are from many different points and many different routes, the more likely you're, you could potentially get baked into the training data too. So it benefits you in both ways. But anyway, back to the original premise of this, this conversation here. Got to be careful with this idea that if you just do good SEO, you're going to influence these AI platforms. It's just simply not true. And this is just a small example. I can show plenty of other examples where brands are basically invisible. Traditional search and invisible in the citation set with their own website. But because all of the citations we go over here, all of these citations mention the brand so many times. There's a direct correlation between your brand visibility in the core sources of retrieval and your visibility in the AI answers you see this time and time again. So anyway, I just wanted to show you this today because I just think it's super cool where you can play with this and there's some funny ones that you are really not that surprising, but if you go to brave. You know, you can see brave AI is highly correlated with the brave search engine. I mean, it's like a one to one match and Claude, some people are starting to talk about this a lot more. But to be totally honest, I've been talking about this probably for at least like going on two years at this point That claudes probably, you know, primary search engine that it does pull from not all the time, but it does go to brave a lot. It goes to brave a ton in retrieval and you can see this direct correlation here. It just in this one little sample report. So this is just a really cool feature where you can start to see. You know, the the correlations, the divergence, and plus this is a very small sample size. You gotta run lots and lots and lots of reports for this to be truly useful. But at least anecdotally, at least at a high level is pretty helpful.
